Use case for self signed ca cert (#84466)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-usecase-include-ca-cert-backup.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/oadp-use-cases/oadp-usecase-enable-ca-cert.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-usecase-backup-restore-ca-cert_{context}"]

> = Backing up an application by including a self-signed CA certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Backing up an application and its self-signed CA certificate
```
The "including" dangles a bit, but adding more text would mean a longer title, which is not ideal.

> The `s3.openshift-storage.svc` service by {odf-short}, uses a TLS certificate that is signed with the self-signed service CA. To prevent a `certificate signed by unknown authority` error, you must include a self-signed CA certificate in the backup storage location (BSL) section of the Data Protection Application (DPA). In this use case, you:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `s3.openshift-storage.svc` service, provided by {odf-short}, uses a TLS certificate that is signed with the self-signed service CA. To prevent a `certificate signed by unknown authority` error, you must include a self-signed CA certificate in the backup storage location (BSL) section of the Data Protection Application (DPA). In this use case, you:
```

> The `s3.openshift-storage.svc` service, provided by {odf-short}, uses a TLS certificate that is signed with the self-signed service CA. To prevent a `certificate signed by unknown authority` error, you must include a self-signed CA certificate in the backup storage location (BSL) section of the Data Protection Application (DPA). In this use case, you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `s3.openshift-storage.svc` service, provided by {odf-short}, uses a Transport Layer Security protocol (TLS) certificate that is signed with the self-signed service CA. 

To prevent a `certificate signed by unknown authority` error, you must include a self-signed CA certificate in the backup storage location (BSL) section of the Data Protection Application (DPA). For this situation, you must complete the following tasks:
```

> * Request a NooBaa bucket by creating an object bucket claim

Reviewer: These all seem like full sentences so please add a full stop to each bulleted sentence.

Author: Done. Thanks.

* Extract the bucket details 

> * Include a self-signed CA certficate in the DPA

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Include a self-signed CA certificate in the DPA
```
you ding-dong! LOL

> * Run a back up of an application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Run a backup of an application
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc extract --to=- cm/test-obc # <1>
----
<1> `test-obc` is the name of the OBC.
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
# BUCKET_NAME
backup-c20...41fd
# BUCKET_PORT
443
# BUCKET_REGION

# BUCKET_SUBREGION

# BUCKET_HOST
s3.openshift-storage.svc
----

. To get the bucket credentials from the generated `secret`, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc extract --to=- secret/test-obc 
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
# AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
ebYR....xLNMc
# AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
YXf...+NaCkdyC3QPym
----

. Create a `cloud-credentials` file with the object bucket credentials as shown in the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
[default]
aws_access_key_id=<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID> 
aws_secret_access_key=<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY> 
----

. Create the `cloud-credentials` secret with the `cloud-credentials` file content as shown in the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret generic \
  cloud-credentials \
  -n openshift-adp \
  --from-file cloud=cloud-credentials
----

> . Extract the service CA certificate from the `openshift-service-ca.crt` config map. Encode the certificate in `Base64` format and `echo` the value to use in a later step. Run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Extract the service CA certificate from the `openshift-service-ca.crt` config map by running the following command. Ensure that you encode the certificate in `Base64` format and `echo` the value to use in a later step.
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get cm/openshift-service-ca.crt \

>   -o jsonpath='{.data.service-ca\.crt}' | base64 -w0; echo

Reviewer 3: BSL goes into unavailable status with service-ca.crt. It works with ca.crt
```suggestion
  -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}' | base64 -w0; echo
```

----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBDRVJUSUZJQ0FURS0...
....gpwOHMwaG9CRmk5a3....FLS0tLS0K
----

> . Configure the Data Protection Application (DPA) with the bucket name, and CA certificate as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the Data Protection Application (DPA) with the bucket name and CA certificate as shown in the following example:
```

+
.Example DPA
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: oadp.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: DataProtectionApplication
metadata:
  name: oadp-backup
  namespace: openshift-adp
spec:
  configuration:
    nodeAgent:
      enable: true
      uploaderType: kopia
    velero:
      defaultPlugins:
        - aws
        - openshift
        - csi
      defaultSnapshotMoveData: true 
  backupLocations:
    - velero:
        config:
          profile: "default"
          region: noobaa
          s3Url: https://s3.openshift-storage.svc 
          s3ForcePathStyle: "true" 
          insecureSkipTLSVerify: "false" # <1>
        provider: aws
        default: true
        credential:
          key: cloud
          name:  cloud-credentials 
        objectStorage:
          bucket: <bucket_name> # <2>
          prefix: oadp
          caCert: <ca_cert> # <3>
----

> <1> The `insecureSkipTLSVerify` flag can be set to either "true" or "false". If set to "true", SSL/TLS security is disabled. If set to "false", SSL/TLS security is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> The `insecureSkipTLSVerify` flag can be set to either `true` or `false`. If set to "true", SSL/TLS security is disabled. If set to `false`, SSL/TLS security is enabled.
```

Reviewer: See "Use backticks for all non-GUI "system items", including:" in this [guide](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#quick-markup-reference).

<2> Specify the name of the bucket extracted in an earlier step.

> <3> Copy and paste the `Base64` encoded certificate from an earlier step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<3> Copy and paste the `Base64` decoded certificate from an earlier step.
```

> <3> Copy and paste the `Base-64` encoded certificate from an earlier step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<3> Copy and paste the `Base64` encoded certificate from an earlier step.
```

. Create the DPA by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <dpa_filename> 
----

> . Verify that the DPA is created successfully by running the following command. In the example output, you can see the `status` object has `type` field set to `Reconciled`. This means, the DPA is successfully created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Verify that the DPA has been created successfully by running the following command:In the example output, you can see the `status` object has the `type` field set to `Reconciled`. This means the DPA has been successfully created.
```

Very personal and pedantic but i think the present perfect continuous tense of `has been` reads better, which might be wrong

> . Verify that the DPA has been created successfully by running the following command:In the example output, you can see the `status` object has the `type` field set to `Reconciled`. This means the DPA has been successfully created.

Reviewer: Consider a `.Verification` heading to offset the verification steps from the procedure. See https://redhat-documentation.github.io/modular-docs/#verification

If the flow of steps cannot be changed, please ignore my comment.

Author: This step is embedded in the procedure and has been added for users to get in the habit of checking the DPA status. It does break the flow if I separate it out. Thanks.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/oadp-use-cases/oadp-usecase-enable-ca-cert.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-usecase-backup-restore-ca-cert_{context}"]
= Backing up an application and its self-signed CA certificate

The `s3.openshift-storage.svc` service, provided by {odf-short}, uses a Transport Layer Security protocol (TLS) certificate that is signed with the self-signed service CA. 

> To prevent a `certificate signed by unknown authority` error, you must include a self-signed CA certificate in the backup storage location (BSL) section of the Data Protection Application (DPA). For this situation, you must complete the following tasks:

Author: The BSL is the object in the DPA.

> To prevent a `certificate signed by unknown authority` error, you must include a self-signed CA certificate in the backup storage location (BSL) section of the Data Protection Application (DPA). For this situation, you must complete the following tasks:

Author: changed to `DataProtectionApplication` CR at all places. thanks.

* Run a backup of an application.

.Prerequisites

* You installed the {oadp-short} Operator.
* You installed the {odf-short} Operator.
* You have an application with a database running in a separate namespace.

.Procedure

. Create an object bucket claim (OBC) manifest to request a NooBaa bucket as shown in the following example:
+
.Example OBC
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: objectbucket.io/v1alpha1
kind: ObjectBucketClaim
metadata:
  name: test-obc # <1>
  namespace: openshift-adp
spec:
  storageClassName: openshift-storage.noobaa.io
  generateBucketName: test-backup-bucket # <2>
----
<1> The name of the object bucket claim.
<2> The name of the bucket.

. Create the OBC by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create -f <obc_file_name>
----

. When you create an OBC, {odf-short} creates a `secret` and a `config map` with the same name as the object bucket claim. The `secret` has the bucket credentials, and the `config map` has information to access the bucket. To get the bucket name and bucket host from the generated config map, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc extract --to=- cm/test-obc # <1>
----

> <1> `test-obc` is the name of the OBC.

Author: done.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc extract --to=- secret/test-obc 
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
# AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
ebYR....xLNMc
# AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY
YXf...+NaCkdyC3QPym
----

. Create a `cloud-credentials` file with the object bucket credentials as shown in the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
[default]
aws_access_key_id=<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID> 
aws_secret_access_key=<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY> 
----

. Create the `cloud-credentials` secret with the `cloud-credentials` file content as shown in the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret generic \
  cloud-credentials \
  -n openshift-adp \
  --from-file cloud=cloud-credentials
----

. Extract the service CA certificate from the `openshift-service-ca.crt` config map by running the following command. Ensure that you encode the certificate in `Base64` format and `echo` the value to use in a later step.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get cm/openshift-service-ca.crt \
  -o jsonpath='{.data.service-ca\.crt}' | base64 -w0; echo
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBDRVJUSUZJQ0FURS0...
....gpwOHMwaG9CRmk5a3....FLS0tLS0K
----

> . Configure the Data Protection Application (DPA) with the bucket name and CA certificate as shown in the following example:

Author: You have a point here, but in OADP elsewhere, we have not followed this pattern. For the sake of consistency, I am not changing it here. Thanks for the suggestion though!

+
.Example DPA
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: oadp.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: DataProtectionApplication
metadata:
  name: oadp-backup
  namespace: openshift-adp
spec:
  configuration:
    nodeAgent:
      enable: true
      uploaderType: kopia
    velero:
      defaultPlugins:
        - aws
        - openshift
        - csi
      defaultSnapshotMoveData: true 
  backupLocations:
    - velero:
        config:
          profile: "default"
          region: noobaa
          s3Url: https://s3.openshift-storage.svc 
          s3ForcePathStyle: "true" 
          insecureSkipTLSVerify: "false" # <1>
        provider: aws
        default: true
        credential:
          key: cloud
          name:  cloud-credentials 
        objectStorage:
          bucket: <bucket_name> # <2>
          prefix: oadp
          caCert: <ca_cert> # <3>
----
<1> The `insecureSkipTLSVerify` flag can be set to either `true` or `false`. If set to "true", SSL/TLS security is disabled. If set to `false`, SSL/TLS security is enabled.
<2> Specify the name of the bucket extracted in an earlier step.
<3> Copy and paste the `Base64` encoded certificate from an earlier step.

> . Create the DPA by running the following command:

Author: Since I am not following the suggestion to create a yaml file, 'Create the DPA' makes more sense and is consistent with other doc sets. Thanks for suggestion.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <dpa_filename> 
----

. Verify that the DPA has been created successfully by running the following command:In the example output, you can see the `status` object has the `type` field set to `Reconciled`. This means the DPA has been successfully created.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get dpa -o yaml
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
items:
- apiVersion: oadp.openshift.io/v1alpha1
  kind: DataProtectionApplication
  metadata:
    namespace: openshift-adp
    #...#
  spec:
    backupLocations:
    - velero:
        config:
          #...#
  status:
    conditions:
    - lastTransitionTime: "20....9:54:02Z"
      message: Reconcile complete
      reason: Complete
      status: "True"
      type: Reconciled
kind: List
metadata:

>   resourceVersion: ""

Author: It has been flagged to me in reviews for other PRs to keep the top part of the CR so that the user can identify what is the type of the CR (though is clearly obvious that is an example output). So, keeping it as is. Thanks.

>   resourceVersion: ""

Reviewer 4: No worries. The top part is required essentially in the step's YAML where we define the CR. In the example output, you can avoid long outputs to focus on the expected output part.
